ah fantastic beasts the crimes of
Grindelwald explores a whole new corner
of the Wizarding World whisking us away
to Paris in the year 1927 and if you
want all the essential backgrounds sure
you could go read every article on
Pottermore but that site said I was a
Slytherin when I'm clearly a ravenclaw
so obviously they don't know everything
plus there are plenty of interesting
connections to be found right in the
original Harry Potter films so why not
join us for a very special very albus
dumbledore heavy edition of crannies at
the opening of Harry Potter and the
Sorcerer's Stone or the Philosopher's
Stone if you are British or pedantic
it's the year 1981 and Albus Dumbledore
is serving as headmaster of Hogwarts
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry we
first see Dumbledore dropping off an
orphaned infant named Harry Potter fresh
off an encounter with an evil wizard
named Lord Voldemort the encounter
killed Harry's parents left him with a
wicked scar and meant that Voldemort has
now disappeared and is presumed dead
Harry must now live with his closest
living relatives the Dursleys who are
muggles or non magical folk but Albus
Dumbledore isn't just any Hogwarts
headmaster he's widely regarded as the
greatest headmaster in Hogwarts history
he will be under the finest headmaster
that Hogwarts has ever seen Albus
Dumbledore see Haggard regards him that
way and he's extremely wide the first
movie takes place in 1991 and covers
Harry's first year at Hogwarts and yes a
lot of stuff happens in this movie that
you either don't need to know or already
know everything about but here is a
rough sketch Harry Potter hero Ron
Weasley and Hermione Granger Harry's
best friends Draco Malfoy bully
Professor Snape sinister neville
longbottom super weird and awkward for
now and Quidditch confusing but aside
from all that here are some big
significant things that we learn about
Dumbledore first off he's terrible at
applauding could have been
in fairness he does figure it out later
Gryffindor much better but more
importantly Dumbledore starts the movie
in possession of the famous sorcerers /
Philosopher's Stone which he's been
keeping in a vault at the Goblin Bank
Gringotts
he has Hagrid move into Hogwarts for
safekeeping the stone was created by an
alchemist named Nicholas Flamel an old
friend of Dumbledore's very old
currently in existence belongs to mr.
nicolas flamel the noted alchemist who
last year celebrated his 660 fifth
birthday Flamel has been using the stone
to create the elixir of life the potion
that allowed him to live for so long but
someone else is after the stone what's
left of Lord Voldemort and he uses a
Hogwarts professor named Quirrell to
almost get his hands on it and bring
himself back from the dead
luckily Harry defeat squirrel /
Voldemort and Dumbledore and Flamel
reach an agreement to destroy the stone
to keep it from falling into the wrong
hands
a friend Agusan - it was best anyway
this is important because Nicolas Flamel
is going to be a character in the new
Fantastic beast movie - Nicolas Flamel
is a real historical figure that made it
into the Harry Potter books he was a
French scholar and bookseller who lived
in the 1300s
JK Rowling wrote him into the first
Harry Potter book because she had a very
vivid dream about him while she was
working on it my friend but I was in his
alchemist studio so there you go next
time you have a realistic dream in which
you made a famous medieval book store
owner write them into the why a novel
you're working on it's good luck we also
see a few other important magical
artifacts for the first time first the
cloak of invisibility which Dumbledore
presents to young Harry it previously
belonged to Harry's father James Harry
doesn't realize it yet but the cloak is
one of the Deathly Hallows a group of
three magical tools that will become
hugely important about six movies from
now also Sorcerer's Stone gives us our
first look at the mirror of Erised said
this mirror shows you that which you
desire most in the world and the crimes
of Grindelwald Dumbledore will see his
old friend and now nemesis Gellert
Grindelwald reflected back Adam
which itself reflects a romantic
relationship between the two that JK
Rowling revealed after the publication
of the final Harry Potter book how much
of that will be reflected in the movie
remains to be seen but I'm super proud
that we've explored so many usages of
the word reflect our last Dumbledore
tidbit from the first film the guy is
100% willing to rig the annual house cup
competition for his friends I have a few
last-minute points to award it's kind of
rubbing it in to wait until the actual
announcement to make this switch right
[Music]
imagine if your school faculty plays
favorites like this oh you thought you
were student of the month psyche turns
out it's the person you hate the most at
the school
who by the way broke way more rules than
you ever did anyway can we get someone
to tear down this kid's picture well he
stood silently in front of his peers
the second Harry Potter film reveals
that not only is Professor Dumbledore
okay with openly celebrating some
students above others he's really not a
huge stickler for Campus Safety either I
strongly recommend caution several
students during Harry Potter's second
year at Hogwarts are petrified and very
nearly killed when someone opens the
Chamber of Secrets a super dangerous
hidden room that contains a deadly
basilisk but though Dumbledore keeps
threatening to close down the school
nothing actually ever happens students
are in great danger so you should
probably send them all home all students
will return to their house common rooms
basics o'clock every evening No
all students will be escorted to each
lesson by a teacher okay I mean I guess
it is a school and education is really
really important to them Oh
exams have been canceled okay I give up
but beyond his lackadaisical attitude
towards teaching children or keeping
them alive really the second movie also
gives us a sense for the extent of
Dumbledore's magical powers and what
fantastic beasts he likes to keep
hanging around
Herry on a whim goes to stay with his
pal Ron Weasley's family and Dumbledore
somehow just knows where to forward his
mail oh look it's all hopeless Lexus
oh I've sent us Harry's as well
Dumbledore must know you're here hurry
so he's just watching everyone all the
time like Santa
then how come so many kids are getting
paralyzed I guess he can only see
important things like where to forward
mail but then check out this scene where
Dumbledore can see Harry and Ron even
though they're under an extremely
powerful invisibility cloak and are
unnoticed by several other wizards are
we sure this guy's a wizard and not a
god that Dumbledore saw right through
you yeah he can see through everything
that's what I'm saying the Chamber of
Secrets ends with Harry rescuing Ron's
sister Jenny from the basilisk it turns
out she opened the chamber under the
influence of a magical diary which it
turns out belonged to Tom Marvolo riddle
former Hogwarts student future Voldemort
and anagram enthusiast Harry destroys
the diary with a basilisk Fang which
isn't just the end of this story but the
beginning of something much bigger more
on that later also worth noting Harry
and Ron meet up with a giant spider in
the woods
Aragog and he drops this interesting
tidbit I came to Hagrid from a distant
land hmm traveller distant land carries
around fantastic beasts on his person
could Aragog have come to America and
into hagrid's possession through the
hands of newt scamander
no maybe the third film in the series
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban
introduces us to a brand new Dumbledore
Michael Gambon took over the role from
the late great Richard Harris who passed
away after the second film welcome to
another year he's got a new look but
it's the same old Dumbledore cavalier
about keeping his young charges safe or
even comfortable when they're injured
child's voice
whoever honest truth is meaning the
prisoner of azkaban serves as a winding
introduction to sirius black a prisoner
of azkaban who escapes and starts
looking for harry but he's not trying to
kill Harry he's trying to protect him
Sirius is Harry's Godfather best friend
to Harry's parents and wrongfully
accused of betraying them to Lord
Voldemort
even though Sirius has remained in
hiding Harry now has the one thing he's
always wanted a real family member to
look after him because the Dursley suck
this is also the lone Potter film to be
directed by Alfonso Quran which is why
it's filled with cool reverse zooms and
impossible mirror shots let's see what
else do we learn in this entry nope no
we covered that oh I know in defence
against the dark arts class the kids
learn how to face off against a boggart
focus the shapeshifters they take the
shape whatever particular path and face
the most in the crimes of Grindelwald we
see Professor Dumbledore back in his
Jude Law days going over the same lesson
with a young Newt Scamander that's about
it for this one I mean after all it's
not called Albus Dumbledore in the
Prisoner of Azkaban in Harry Potter and
the Goblet of Fire we get some vital
backstory about Dumbledore I never liked
these cartoons okay honestly there's not
a ton of stuff in this film that has a
long-term significance to Newt Scamander
story it's mainly taken up with the
Triwizard Tournament the extraordinary
dangerous competition that of course
Dumbledore encourages his young charges
to enter eternal glory that is what
awaits the student the wings of try it
was a tournament we do meet the French
magical students at the beauxbatons
academy and since the next film is set
in Paris it'll likely feature a lot of
beauxbatons grads they also arrive at
Hogwarts via flying carriage somewhat
similar to the one that was used years
before by Grindelwald his is piloted by
festivals rather than winged horses more
on them later
most of Goblet of fires about
competitions and romance and Sons
masquerading his teachers to get back at
their fathers you know standard Harry
Potter stuff but the finale of the film
marks the official return of Lord
Voldemort resurrected saans knows to
attempt world
combination yet again we also meet
Voldemort's pet snake Nagini the crimes
of Grindelwald reveals that she was once
a human known as a maledictis cursed to
transform permanently into an animal
yeah I mean the candy seems great but
not so much the part where you can
permanently turn into a snake and then
get murdered by a teenager I guess you
take the good with the bad director
David Yates took over the franchise for
good apparently with 2007's order of the
Phoenix a movie that opens with Harry
being expelled from Hogwarts for using
magic in front of his muggle cousin
Dudley
well not exactly
Dumbledore does persuaded the minister
to suspend you an exposure depending on
format here or at all charges once we're
back at Hogwarts Harry encounters his
first vest rules they can only be seen
by people who've seen dead these are the
strains skeletal looking horses that
back in the 20s carried around
Grindelwald flying carriage order of the
Phoenix reveals that there is a secret
Anti Voldemort society known as the
order of the Phoenix man these titles
are on point the members including
Sirius Black Dumbledore and Ron's
parents pledged to protect Harry and
defeat Voldemort at all costs plus Snape
also gives Harry some a clemency lessons
on the side to help him lock Voldemort
out of his mind
used properly the power of uh clemency
would help shield you from access or
Gellert Grindelwald was also a master
Aquaman's which helped to make him safe
from powerful mind reader a Kayla Jill
amends Queenie Goldstein look out
Slenderman oh never mind never mind
it's just Baltimore who lures Harry into
a trap by exploiting his connection with
him which results in an epic battle
between Voldemort's Death Eaters and the
order of the Phoenix in the Ministry of
Magic one of the aforementioned Death
Eaters is the vile Bellatrix Lestrange
it turns out in addition to being a
descendant of leaderless strange
leaderless change I've heard of that
family
she's also related to Harry's Godfather
Sirius Black that doesn't stop her from
taking him out at the end of the movie
though
r.i.p SB you were too pure for this
world
in the end Dumbledore defeats Voldemort
in a wizard's duel and the public begins
to recognize that their worst nightmare
has returned its back let's see I think
that just about covers everything here
alright of course you should know that
doors could be important later you know
we're all the way to Harry Potter and
the half-blood Prince and I just
realized that this is the first one of
these videos we made where the title
could be a line of dialogue from one of
the movies can't you just hear Draco
Malfoy saying cram it Potter but you
loved that didn't you Potter as
half-blood Prince kicks off Dumbledore
is somehow even more convinced than
usual that all of his students are going
to die dark forces attempt to penetrate
this castles walls in the end the
greatest weapon you we also get some
vital Hermione backstory dentists this
entry also introduces the concept of
Horcruxes a very powerful kind of magic
that allows a witch or wizard to break
off a piece of their soul and hide it in
a person creature or inanimate object
Tom Riddle's diary from the second movie
was one of several Horcruxes containing
bits of Voldemort's soul
Dumbledore brings Harry along on a
dangerous trip to an isolated cave to
retrieve and destroy another one of
Baltimore's Horcruxes Horcrux I orc orc
enchanted objects in order to get to the
Horcrux Dumbledore has to drink this
horrible potion known throughout the
wizarding world as Gatorade no no no
it's just the drink of despair
the drink weakens the old wizard a bit
but not so much that he can't fill the
entire cavern with fire those monsters
he's killing are Voldemort's evil army
of the undead known as in theory rumor
has it that Grindelwald once dreamed of
raising his own army of inferi back at
Hogwarts Draco confronts Dumbledore
while Harry hides just below it seems
Draco has been assigned by Voldemort to
take Dumbledore out for good Oh some he
starts well knocking the elder one out
of Dumbledore's hand which according to
wand lore makes the Elder Wand loyal to
Draco which will become very important
later but eventually the kid loses his
nerve you understand to do this and
Professor Snape arrives at the Astronomy
tower to finish the job
I knew that guy was up to no good of
other code over Wow r.i.p Dumbledore as
if that weren't painful enough Harry
Hermione and Ron discovered that the
Horcrux they found in the cave was it
even a real Horcrux I have stolen the
real Horcrux and intend to destroy it as
soon as I can this one is such a bummer
I remember in this series those all
about exotic candy and making new animal
friends those were the days Dumbledore
may be gone but the final two Potter
films Deathly Hallows parts 1 & 2 fill
in a ton of backstory that will become
essential to understanding some of these
crimes of Grindelwald to come but first
Nagini eats former Hogwarts teacher
charity Burbage
dude I guess we won't hold that against
her okay on to Dumbledore this reputable
journalist Rita Skeeter has written a
tell-all about him that reveals some
dark family secrets the family moved
there after his father killed those
three muggles many of them obtained from
an old friend of the family but Tilda
Bagshot my god boy she told you the most
celebrated magical historian of the last
century Hermione and Harry who along
with Ron have left Hogwarts to pursue
Horcruxes full-time head to Godric's
hollow the old hometown of the
Dumbledore family they think they're
visiting with Matilda Bagshot but it's
actually a trap set by Voldemort and
Guinea is waiting for them Oh creepy
nonetheless the trip isn't wasted Harry
finds a photo of none other than Gellert
Grindelwald you know the guy from those
crimes Reda skeeters book has even more
clues as do some visions Harry has due
to his strange connection with Voldemort
for example he sees Grindelwald stealing
an extremely powerful wand known as the
Elder Wand
from a wand maker named Gregorovitch the
wand is one of three magical objects
known as the Deathly Hallows and the
bearer of all three of them will become
a master of death now the other two
Hallows are Harry's invisibility cloak
and the thing we've never seen before
called the resurrection stone what's
with these extended universes in their
obsession with stones
so of course Voldemort wants all the
Deathly Hallows because he hates dying
and in another vision Harry sees the
Dark Lord visiting an old Grindelwald in
prison in search of the Elder Wand
Grindelwald tells him that the wand
belonged to and was buried with
Dumbledore which is where Voldemort
eventually finds it and it's on to part
two so now of all the board has the
Elder Wand but he's down to just a few
Horcruxes including the one that's
hidden in his pet snake Nagini so he
becomes pretty focused on personal
security I need to keep Harry in
searching more of those Horcruxes heads
back to Hogwarts and meets up with Albus
long-lost brother you have a source it's
here we finally learn about the key
tragedy in Dumbledore's past sort of you
really do have to look parts of it up
online to get a true sense of everything
my brother sacrificed many things mr.
Bardo on his journey to find power they
enjoy being vague these Dumbledore's oh
well Dumbledore was always very private
even as a boy here are the broad strokes
Albus Dumbledore and Grindelwald started
out as good friends and according to JK
Rowling even more and for a time
exchanged letters where they discussed a
possible magical takeover of the muggle
world the nerve anyway back in 1899
Aberforth and Grindelwald
to a huge fight Albus intervened as did
his sister Ariana a powerful witch who
did not have full control over her
abilities ariana was killed in the
battle but Dumbledore remained forever
uncertain about who actually unleashed
the curse that killed her
this caused the end of Dumbledore and
Grindelwald relationship they don't
really spell any of this out in the
movie but you know if you know how to
read body language you'll probably still
want to look it up online this is also
where the two franchises begin to weave
together in Potter lore Dumbledore
gained control of the Elder Wand in the
first place in a legendary duel with
Grindelwald which well probably happened
in fantastic beasts 4 or 5 meanwhile
Voldemort and Nagini kill Snape who on
his deathbed or death floor really
reveals that Harry will have to die in
order from Voldemort to die a part of
Voldemort lives inside an apparently
Dumbledore knew this the whole time
you've kept him alive so he can die well
at least he's consistent consistently
not worried about dead students the boy
must die also Snape killed Dumbledore as
part of a pre-arranged scheme to
convince Voldemort to fully trust him
you must be the one to kill me I knew he
was up to good all along as it turns out
in the process of destroying a separate
Horcrux stored in an old ring owned by
an ancestor of all des morts named
Marvolo gaunt Dumbledore became infected
with a deadly curse it was gonna kill
him anyway and Dumbledore knew the value
of having Snape in close with the Dark
Lord Snape was good the whole time he
was just pretending to be bad in order
to protect Harry the son of the woman he
loved Lily Potter a love doomed to be
timeless yet unrequited and Snape dies a
hero fulfilling a promise he made to
show his devotion to his one true love
always
is it dusty in here anyway after death
Dumbledore continues to be kind of
questionable honestly would always be
given at home course
yeah that's Dumbledore appearing to
Harry in an afterlife vision and yet
still speaking in riddles
you're both literally dead man just come
out with it oh and don't worry about the
whole Harry being dead part he wasn't
really dead it just killed the part of
Voldemort that was inside of him he came
back back on planet Earth Neville
Longbottom would grow to be a real cutie
pie kills a Nagini the snake with the
Sword of Gryffindor can listen Hagen
then it's just him and because she was
the final remaining Horcrux Voldemort is
now mortal Harry and Voldemort engage in
one final duel which should be no
contest because Voldemort has the
super-powerful Elder Wand right well
remember back when Draco disarmed
Dumbledore before Snape killed him that
made Draco the elder wands master until
Harry later disarmed Draco at an alpha
manner which made Harry the person that
the elder Ahn respected meaning
Dumbledore's killing curse actually
rebounds off Harry and ends the Dark
Lord's reign once and for all so I guess
he's in the soulstone now or something
with time travel whatever I'm sure
captain marvel will explain it moving on
Harry snaps the Elder Wand into and
throws it off a bridge and the series
ends with a jump forward in time where
we learned that Harry's kid is named
Albus Severus oh that's sweet because
they're both dead which brings us to the
most recent movie but chronologically
the earliest because why set anything in
present-day it's awful fantastic beasts
and where to find them whisks us back to
New York City in the year 1926
mysterious magical attacks are happening
all over the city so this is taking
place about 25 years after Grindelwald
falling-out with Dumbledore he's
recently been involved in a string of
attacks across Europe that had the
entire magical world freaked out the
International Confederation is
threatening to send a delegation
they think this is related to
Grindelwald attacks in Europe
Grindelwald has become a radical
advocate for the dissolution of the
international agreement to keep magic a
secret this could mean exposure it could
mean more he wants wizards and witches
to reveal themselves to the world and
take control of the muggles or as
they're called here in the States
no Maja's because Americans are not
super creative so as all of this is
taking place
Hogwarts grad and Majnu ologist Newt
Scamander arrives in New York with a
suitcase full of the fantastic beasts
that the title mentioned welcome to New
York
thank you having them is banned in
America but he brought them anyway
because he's not great with authority
I've just completed here in the fields
I'm writing a book about magical pages
but almost as soon as he arrives in town
newts creatures begin to escape and he
accidentally switches briefcases with a
regular Nomad Schmo named Jacob Kowalski
they're apprehended by Amakusa agent
named Tina goldstein that's the magical
Congress of the United States of America
Mikasa while JK Rowling thinks were
really bad at condensing for complicated
reasons rather than arresting them Tina
takes them home to meet her sister
queenie queenie is a powerful
legitimates who can't help but read
everyone's mind all the time they
mutually agree to find it cute instead
of extremely unnerving he didn't get the
money he wanted first bakery you baked
honey so newt shows jacob around his
enchanted briefcase menagerie of wonder
best connection and protecting and they
start the process of recapturing all
those fantastic beasts that got free
meanwhile Makua chief Percival graves is
investigating the source of the
destructive attacks Graves blames the
attacks on newts escaped creatures and
has him arrested along with Tina and
Jacob impound that case grace and hey
check this out during newts
interrogation one of your teachers
argued strongly against your expulsion
now
what makes Albus Dumbledore so fond of
you
newts close relationship with Dumbledore
who at this point is Hogwarts Defense
Against the Dark Arts professor will
become crucial in part to newts older
brother also gets a shout-out yes
commander the war hero this is his
little brother yeah he's showing up in
the next movie as well eventually
everyone agrees that the attack on a
u.s. senator Shaw and the other
explosions around New York are the work
of a powerful magical force called an
obscure estate uncontrollable dark force
to bust out in attacks and then vanishes
these are created when young witches or
wizards are forced to repress rather
than control their magical powers graves
finds an obscure sand Newt suitcase but
Newt insists that it's harmless and was
removed from a young girl in Africa who
later died he brought this obscure sin
to the city of New York in the hope of
causing mass disruption breaking the
statute of secrecy and revealing the
magical world Newt and Tina are
sentenced to death for hiding the
obscurus but they managed to escape with
help from Queenie Jacob and a creature
known as swooping evil Newt and his new
friends continue rounding up fantastic
beasts while graves zeros in his obscure
a search to the residence of an anti
magic cult slash orphanage called the
second Salem errs graves befriends one
of the orphans named credence trying to
get more information
hey you're into the deathly hallows man
I know the deathly hallows it turns out
Creedence himself is the obscure Yeol
he destroys the orphanage and a pretty
decent chunk of Manhattan
while Newt and Tina try to calm
creedence down and reason with them I'm
here to help you protect you
graves and his Makua agents go on the
attack
it appears that Creedence is destroyed
but a little piece of his obscurus
escapes the subway and floats away
graves it turns out had purposely
unleashed the full force of the
Obscura's destructive power in order to
reveal the existence of magic to the
world he has broken one of our most
sacred law that has us scuttling like
rats in the gutter a lot the demands
that we conceal their true nature
because he's actually wait for it
Gellert Grindelwald using a powerful
transfiguration charm he decided to hide
out incognito by becoming Colin Farrell
you know a character actor are probably
blend in way better was magical ray
winstone not available as he's being
taken away Grindelwald whispers this to
Newt but we died just now whatever you
say it seems like Grindelwald is one but
newt unleashes a creature called a
Thunderbird carrying a vial of venom
taking from that swooping evil creature
to create some amnesia Rainn see it
wasn't really evil after all everything
gets fixed and Jacob agrees to step out
into hurricane brainwipe and forget
about his new friends even Queenie who
is clearly his soul mate Newton Tina
have also hit it off despite some
initial awkwardness about newts form a
relationship with Leto Lestrange they
have a tough time saying goodbye when he
heads back to England to continue his
studies and the last scene Queenie goes
to visit Jacob at his new bakery and it
seems like he might kind of remember
because love is stronger than magic I
think that sounds right and that brings
us up to date except for all the stuff
that JK Rowling tweets or stuff that's
just in the books or on the website or
debuting exclusively on Facebook live or
fanfic that one a contest is now canon
or really anything that's been happening
in the background I was trying to figure
out who does the voice of the gangster
Goblin good look
back alive it's ron perlman thanks for
watching
[Music]